# 100 - 1. Code Your App

Developing a Docker application is similar to the way you develop an application without Docker. The difference is that while developing for Docker, you're deploying and testing your application or services running within Docker containers in your local environment (either a Linux VM setup by Docker or directly Windows if using Windows Containers).

For the purpose of a universal solution, we subscribe to **gitpod.io**, a service that lets us turn our source code into a Docker container hosted development environment. In our GitHub repositories - where we keep our source code - all one has to do is click the **[Gitpod icon] Open** button near the top of the page when at the start of repository, and gitpod will direct us to this development environment automatically (**note**: the name of the GitHub repository is extended by some random characters, e.g. ```https://agilitygame-home-t4ywwnrcngu.ws-eu111.gitpod.io/```). 

Gitpod lets us specify the configuration of the development environment in a file, **.gitpod.yml**. For example:

```
# This configuration file was automatically generated by Gitpod.
# Please adjust to your needs (see https://www.gitpod.io/docs/introduction/learn-gitpod/gitpod-yaml)
# and commit this file to your remote git repository to share the goodness with others.

# Learn more from ready-to-use templates: https://www.gitpod.io/docs/introduction/getting-started/quickstart

tasks:
  - init: npm install
```
.gitpod.yml

We base our GitHub repository content and structure on the [GitLab CI/CD test automation example](https://github.com/testmoapp/example-gitlab-automation). It is documented in the article [GitLab CI/CD Test Automation Pipeline & Reporting](https://www.testmo.com/guides/gitlab-ci-test-automation). But we will document it here for our specific case.

## 100 - Local Development Environment

Your CI/CD workflow will run inside a Docker container on GitLab's servers (or on your own servers if your team uses a private GitLab instance). But it's still useful to run code locally, e.g. to see if your tests pass during development or to use the ```npm``` package manager to install new packages.

You could do all this directly on your machine, but it's often useful to run code inside a Docker container as well instead. First, it makes it very easy to run any commands and code in the exact same environment: simply use the same Docker container as you use for your CI pipeline. No need to install any prerequisites or dependencies! And second, it makes things more secure as everything runs inside the container without access to your full machine.

We will simply create a new Docker Compose configuration file in our project directory and tell Docker Compose to use the same ```node``` Docker container that we already use for our GitLab CI workflow:

```
# dev/docker-compose.yml
version: '3'
services:
  node:
    image: node:19
    volumes:
      - ./../:/project
    working_dir: /project
```
dev/docker-compose.yml

We can then easily start our Docker container and run code inside it by using the ```docker compose``` command to launch a shell. We can then run any commands and start our tests inside the container **without affecting our main machine**:

```
$ cd dev
$ docker compose run node bash
Creating dev_node_run ... done
root@d433d79213d7:/project$ # in the container
```

## 200 - Setting Up Test Automation



More
